---
layout: page
title: about
date: 2012-06-10 23:26
author: shawnmclean
comments: true
categories: []
---
<h2>Who he is</h2>
Shawn McLean is passionate about architecting and developing scalable mobile and web applications, mainly in the .NET world. He is also in the bleeding edge world of open source, working with tools such as Node.Js and rich front-end client side development. He is an advocate of software and build engineering methodologies for a streamlined software development process. Besides his love for software engineering, architecture, and design, he also focuses on artificial intelligence and has interest in the research field of computer vision and machine learning.

When not working on projects, he can be found contributing, maintaining and writing <a href="https://github.com/shawnmclean?tab=repositories">open source projects</a>.
<h2>What he did</h2>
In 2008, he was a gold medalist in the web design category of World Skills Jamaica and a Best of Nation awardee for World Skills International, 2009. In 2009, he was also a finalist for the Microsoft Imagine Cup software design competition in Egypt, where he was the team lead of four, successfully clearing three rounds in a competition of more than 15 teams from around the Central Caribbean. In 2010, he led his team to first place of the Imagine Cup Interoperability award in Poland, clearing more than 90 registered teams. He is also the recipient of Jamaica’s Prime Minister’s Youth Awards, Governor General’s iBelieve award, the Gleaner award, and the Chamber of Commerce award for outstanding innovation in the field of technology and science.

In April 2013 his book <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1849688567/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&amp;camp=1789&amp;creative=9325&amp;creativeASIN=1849688567&amp;linkCode=as2&amp;tag=shawnmclean-20">Instant .NET 4.5 Extension Methods How-to</a> was published by PacktPub, which is a cookbook that contains caveats and tricks of learning to write and use .NET Extension Methods on various datatypes.
<h2>Where he is</h2>
Shawn currently works as a software engineer at <a href="http://www.mcsystems.com/">Management Control Systems</a>, a subsidiary of Jamaica National Building Society.

He worked at the University Information System Services division of Northern Caribbean University from Jan, 2011 - August, 2013, where he was a part of a software engineering team that builds systems for universities, high schools, the government and other institutions/companies.

He is also the co-founder of Xormis, a cutting edge start-up software engineering company that creates commercial applications.
<h2>Where he will be</h2>
Shawn is open to almost any opportunity. He loves to work in an environment whose culture supports rapid learning of the latest technologies and software engineering practices. He loves working with lazy people who will automate every task they have to do more than once. He also likes attending developer conferences and meeting other software engineers. He also likes nice chairs.
<h2>Where he will not be</h2>
Shawn tried out for the acting club in high school and found out that he will never have anything to do with the performing arts industry, ever.
